doesn't matter how many links you have
if everyone lands on your site and
you're ranking number one to click the
back button it tells Google this site
sucks and they should rank it lower
hey everyone welcome to today's video we
are backstage at adcon 2023 where we've
just had Neil Patel headlining the event
and we have decided to produce a little
bit of content backstage which is
selfishly for me and I think you're
going to learn a lot from it we have
scaled our coaching business to half a
million a month with paid advertising
Neil is the master at Google SEO you've
been doing this for now how long oh
almost 22 years-ish or so okay perfect
so I've got some questions because I
need to extract 22 years worth of
Knowledge from Neil's brain so that we
as a company can Implement some Google
SEO stuff so we can get more traffic
because where I see the game going is
that paid ads are only getting more
expensive they're only getting more
difficult they're still in something of
a golden you know a few golden years but
it's not getting any cheaper right
patreon not getting any cheaper but
they're I think there'll be a way to
make money from paid as for a very very
long time yeah just like SEO last year
was much easier 10 15 years ago it still
works today it's harder it takes more
time but it still produces results just
like paid advertising because you learn
more over the years just like with paid
ads you learn how to optimize your
conversions your funnels are upselling
down sell and all these things help you
get a better Roi over time and and new
platforms are going to keep emerging we
take the same skills over so so totally
agree but I also want to add in the
organic side of things which we're not
focusing on at all and I want to have
that leverage as well and Google traffic
is so valuable but it's a little bit
harder to get and takes a little bit
longer so we're going to dive straight
in so where we're at Neil is we have
done pretty much nothing with Google SEO
for 10 years fresh as a bean and uh and
we need your help so what would be your
starting point for us we're we are a
marketing education company we're really
good at what we do we focus on teaching
YouTube ads and webinars and teaching
coaches how to get high ticket clients
and what would be what would be what
would you say is our starting point to
get on on Google so the starting point
is it's really hard to wrinkle upset
without content and you probably have a
ton of content from these events video
content's not bad but let's focus on
text-based content because typically
whenever you do a Google search
yes videos can rank but it's mainly
text-based websites that you're landing
on to so the first thing you'd want to
do is give away the farm and what I mean
by give away the farm is think about
everything that you're charging for
educate people through text-based blog
posts and give that away on your website
no joke okay right so
so we have a ten thousand dollar
coaching and included in that is a
training program with a bunch of bunch
of lessons so how much of that what
percentage of that or or pretty much
type all of that up and put it across
lots of different articles break it up
correct so you type up the majority of
it whatever that is eighty percent
seventy percent fifty percent okay break
it up into a lot of different articles
and put it on the web and it could be a
variation of it right it doesn't have to
be the exact thing but you want to give
away your most valuable content for free
if you're looking at a rink okay got it
so how will I know
um which topics from within my training
my valuable content are going to pull
well on or not sure so you have uh we
have free tools like ubersuggest you can
end up typing in any keywords like uh
um
coaching or consulting or anything like
that and you're going to get more
specific those one word phrases are too
generic but like when you're in coaching
what do you guys help with specifically
with coaching it's really it's a really
it's a three-pronged approach so it's
people that have a high ticket offer
they may need help restructuring that
offer it's actually the session I just
got off finishing now so I was teaching
something called the offer triangle
where we have client results at the top
we have lifestyle next to that we have
scalability next to that so you've got
to have an offer that can satisfy those
three things so it's offer creation it's
a webinar that's gonna get people from
uh I call this the conversion timeline
they're at a zero they have no idea who
you are yeah 10 to buying we want to get
them up to a six or a seven before we
get them on the phone webinar does that
YouTube traffic to uh to to flood the
whole system and right now if I had to
sum it up it's like you guys do high
ticket coaching yep is that correct yes
so you would go to Uber says and you
type in keywords like high ticket
coaching it'll tell you the popularity
of that term plus it'll give you
thousands and thousands and thousands of
other suggestions it would give you
variations of high ticket coaching as
well as other long-term variations of it
so now you have a list of a ton of
keywords within your industry that
people are searching for look for the
ones with high search volume because
that means people are searching for them
on a monthly basis and look for the ones
that have a high CPC you do pay that
cpcs cost per click typically the higher
CPC that means the better that keyword
is because people are getting more
conversions right so what you want to do
is then create content around those
keywords assuming it's relevant to the
products and the services you're
offering and you would want to put that
up on the Internet that's the first step
okay so a few questions now so I'm
wondering where to go next because um
we're talking about finding high value
keywords with a with a high CPC surely
they're more competitive so if I'm not
on a new new site no no a lot of those
aren't necessarily more competitive okay
in many cases they are but
in some cases they're not and with Uber
suggests you can put in your domain name
and it'll tell you out of the list of
keywords it'll filter the ones that you
have the highest probability of ranking
for right now based on what you've done
so far
okay that makes sense so would I be
picking a a combination of what I would
deem high value keywords versus low
hanging fruit keywords yes okay and the
Apple sort the low hanging keywords for
you first okay once you put in your
domain name uh so then you would create
text-based content and put those blog
posts on your website yeah you could use
things like Chad GPT and Bard or the
Uber says AI writer but you still want a
human to modify the content your content
needs to have e what that stands for is
experience expertise Authority and trust
and Google breaks that down they want
your content to be unique in it to stand
out they don't want it to be
regurgitated information that can
already be found on the web okay so if
you can end up creating really really
unique content that stands out and is
super helpful it's more likely to rank
okay and you just publish it on your
blog on your website
and then what you'll need to do is a you
need to get some social shares to your
article so share it on your social
profile okay and you can also reach out
to other people who share similar
content on Twitter and other social
networks and ask them to share content
and maybe you reciprocate and share
their content okay and then B you need
to get links links are one website
linking to your website yeah without
other people linking to your website
you're not going to rank as well okay so
in Uber suggests there's a report called
the backlink opportunity report so you
put in a few of your competitors if you
don't know your competitors just Google
the terms you're trying to rank for
you'll see who's at the top and you'll
put in your domain name and a few of
your competitors yep and in this
backlink opportunity report you first
start off with your own domain name
and then when you put in your
competitors because it'll tell you who
it'll give you boxes for your
competitors
it'll show you everyone who's linking to
your competitors but not you see if
someone links to one of your competitors
they may be biased and they may like
them and they may not link to you yeah
someone links to two three of your
competitors the chances are
they're they like your industry they
don't care about a specific competitor
and they're open to anyone in your space
you would head up those sites and talk
to them about how you have better
content more thorough and they're
already linked a few how they can get to
how you can get them to link to you and
why it provides more value and over time
you'll build some links okay and what
you'll find in this process is you'll
start ranking higher okay now there's
some on-page
SEO issues that most sites have in the
Uber says report there's also a site
Auto report you put in your url tells
you all the basic stuff you need to fix
so that way you can rank higher from a
code perspective
at this point you just do this you
create at least three articles a week
you do this for a year you'll start
seeing some really good traffic
what you'll notice though is as you get
more traffic you may not get more
conversions
so just like how you take something from
0 to 10. you got to warm them up someone
may read your blog and they may be out
of two yeah and now they're out there
too you may in within that blog post
want to collect their email address okay
from an exit intent or you could do hey
join this webinar and you're starting to
warm people up so you can get them from
a two to maybe a six and then they're
more likely to be ready to get on the
phone and talk to you okay so let's just
come back to backlinks in because that's
one of the things on my list to ask you
about because back 10 years ago I used
to do a little bit of Google SEO and it
was really easy 10 years ago we would
just go to Fiverr and just buy a bunch
of backlinks and it actually it actually
worked I'm aware that that's far from
the truth now yeah what you've just
described is very helpful but sounds
very manual is there any way to automate
this leverage my time better than
reaching out manually to all these
different competitor sites
uh no there isn't okay you have to just
create amazing content reach out to them
get links okay there are some other ways
you can generate links like you can
create infographics people are more
likely to link to infographics from what
we see uh you can use canva to create
them uh infographic is just a visual
that breaks down the story you're trying
to tell you can also create free tools
they're easier to generate links to uh
sorry to interrupt just before we move
on infographic that's something I would
just embed into the blog post yes okay
with any kind of SEO benefits in the way
that I'm uh this embed to the blog post
people like it they'll link to it okay
and then free tools you can do it you
know I don't know the coaching space too
well but like if I'm in Fitness uh BMI
Mass calculator body mass index
calculator uh Chad GPT was able to
create the game pong in less than 60
seconds so you can have it create almost
any tool for you you can also use sites
like code Canyon to buy tools that you
can white label and put on your site for
like under 100 bucks maybe 50 bucks okay
and these tools over time will help
build links as well okay that's good to
know you just gotta find tools within
your space but on sites like code Canyon
there's Tools in almost every space okay
so so what I'm hearing and I want to
make sure I'm understanding this
correctly is now the game is we want
high value backlinks but perhaps less of
them than just trying to get thousands
and thousands of backlinks just for the
sake of having a backlink is that am I
understanding that right ideally high
value and quantity okay but high value
quantity okay and if you can't get that
high values fine relevant sites linking
to you you don't want Neil Patel linking
to you when you're in coaching you may
want another coaching site linking to
you uh or you may want to see NBC or
Bloomberg website linking to you that's
breaking down how people are making a
lot of money through coaching and it's
an up-and-coming industry right I'm
making it up maybe they would write
about that maybe they wouldn't okay but
that's the kind of stuff that you want
and you'll get that over time you just
got to do it often enough create enough
content add enough value and people link
to okay this is like a conference if you
get content are people going to come
back next year and excuse my language
but uh
is the same with the internet if you
create good content people will come
back they'll be loyal they'll give you
the email address they're more likely to
convert they'll link to you they'll
share your content all that stuff okay
so so we used to again back 10 years ago
we used to prioritize things like
getting a backlink from a government
website or an education website and
things like that still helps okay still
relevant doesn't matter too much you
just want to create good content okay
all right so
how many backlinks would I be expecting
to generate over what period of time and
then when would it really start to kick
in don't worry about the number it'll be
slow and steady you may trickle in and
get a few a week but after doing it for
a year your fuel week May turn into five
or ten a week okay and it just adds up
over time okay you don't need quantity
to rank you just need quality content
that's amazing the best user experience
put the user first do what's best for
them and then the long run you should
start ranking higher and higher assuming
you're doing the other factors like we
mentioned okay so so if I did want to
you know I'm hearing this has got to be
a manual process we need to be reaching
out building a bit of a relationship
with those other sites
um can I still leverage my time by just
hiring a VA to do that would you trust
someone to be not a ba someone who has a
little bit more experience who
specializes in it they're going to have
much more success than a year okay just
because of their knowledge yeah maybe
they've sent out enough emails for a
link building so they know you know what
has a better success rate uh they know
what kind of content converts better
things like that okay via has to learn
it all from scratch okay so we'll move
to the the content itself in in a minute
the text that we're actually putting in
there and how long and things like that
but before we move on from linking
outside of that outside of the backlinks
are there any other factors that we want
to incorporate in our article that helps
rank in terms of we talked about finding
some keywords some high value ones
competitive naturally you'll have the
keywords in the article without forcing
it yeah um and you don't need to
emphasize on how many times or anything
like that just whatever is natural
uh but you got the main factors on page
which we talked about the site Auto
report will help yeah backlinks and
content those are the main three areas
it's so interesting because back when we
used to do it it seems so
artificial to me now but the way we used
to do it is Bolding certain words and
yeah and underlining certain things and
putting a certain thing in the in in the
header text and things like this so so
that's all not very relevant anymore
uh nowhere near the other main three
factors because look at the day when
you're reading an article do you really
care if a word is bolded you care if it
provides the best experience if it
doesn't you're going to click the back
button and go on to the next article
doesn't matter how many links you have
if everyone lands on your site and
you're ranking number one and you click
the back button it tells Google this
site sucks and they should rank it lower
got it okay this is really really
interesting and also helpful